Team Update 00

General

Overview
Team Update 00 is provided as a quick reference of rule changes from last season, and updates from
the V0 Preview Release. The approach taken in this Team Update is to describe changes to content
only. Editorial changes to verbiage, rule and section references, game specific examples that relate to
evergreen content, and formatting changes are not described.
As always, it’s important to read the whole BIOBUZZTM Presented by RTX Competition Manual at least
once and become an expert on sections of the manual that directly relate to your role and
responsibilities on your team. Teams are welcome to view existing questions and answers and to ask
thoughtful and informed questions through the official Q&A system opening September 28, 2026,
12:00p.m. ET.

Notable Changes from Last Season

New Competition Manual Format
Rules in the BIOBUZZ Competition Manual are written to emphasize intended gameplay and make it
simpler for participants and volunteers to understand the spirit and intent of the rule. Important
changes include:
   •   Introduction of the Competition Integrity Contract (CIC) which includes a Sporting Ethics Code
       and Behavior Guidelines in Section 1 Introduction.
   •   Adding STRATEGIC as a defined term described in Section 10.6 Violations and utilizing it in
       many rules and violations.
           o   STRATEGIC describes actions done with the aim of getting a competitive advantage.
           o   Some rules prohibit specific actions if they are perceived to be STRATEGIC or provide an
               increased violation for actions perceived to be STRATEGIC (e.g., impeding or enabling
               scoring actions).
           o   This includes actions that are deliberate or reckless with foreseeable consequences.
           o   Accidental/unforeseeable occurrences cannot be STRATEGIC.
The BIOBUZZ manual is written to allow event volunteers to make good-faith judgement calls at events
instead of writing rules that are highly detailed and overly complex that try to cover every scenario a
volunteer may encounter. This philosophy is reflected throughout the Competition Manual.




 Team Update 00                           September 12, 2026                                      1 of 3
Section 3 Competition Eligibility and Inspection
Changes were made to the Inspection and Re-Inspection portions of this section to move content from
rules to process descriptions. Additionally:
   •   I302 *Enter only 1 ROBOT was moved to Section 5 Event Rules.

Section 5 Event Rules
   •   Pit and Cart Rules have been adjusted and condensed
   •   E510 *Don’t heat or cool ROBOT components to gain an advantage has been added

Section 6 Awards
The Structured Interview is now the Initial Interview and the team judging experience may be different
in certain events and regions. The Initial Interviews may either be: scheduled in-person, unscheduled in-
person, or remote. Many portions of Section 6 have been adjusted to reflect this change.

Section 11 Game Rules
Rules in this section have been changed to reflect and point to the Competition Integrity Contract (CIC).
Many violations have been adjusted to include increased violations for specific actions if they are
perceived to be STRATEGIC or provide an increased violation for actions perceived to be STRATEGIC.
Many violations utilize a VERBAL WARNING for non-STRATEGIC violations.
   •   G202 *Follow the Competition Integrity Contract (CIC) has been added.
           o   Teams are required to not cheat, play by the rules, and behave with integrity as outlined
               in the Competition Integrity Contract (CIC).
           o   Multiple rules in the G2XX section have been condensed and are covered as part of
               G202.
   •   G406 *Do not damage or make a mess in the ARENA combines previous rules G407 (Do not
       damage SCORING ELEMENTS) and G412 (Don’t damage the FIELD).

Section 12 ROBOT Construction Rules
Many of the ROBOT Construction rules have been reorganized to match the new additions in Section 1.
At the event, Inspectors are not expected to check every rule, but as part of the Competition Integrity
Contract (CIC) teams are still expected to follow every rule.
Several rules which included recommendations for robot construction and best practices were
removed and moved to other resources that can be found on the FTC-Resources and FTC-docs pages.
   •   Removed the rule restricting allowed gamepads (previously R903)
   •   R101 *It is your team’s ROBOT has been added to the ROBOT Construction Rules.
   •   R105 *A ROBOT must stay as one assembly, and there are limits to how much it can expand.



 Team Update 00                           September 12, 2026                                      2 of 3
          o   Expansion Limits have been adjusted for BIOBUZZ with updated wording and examples.
          o   Now includes deliberately detaching COMPONENTS.
          o   Expansion is regulated during gameplay with G416 *ROBOTS have construction limits.
   •   R201 *ROBOTS should be designed so they don’t damage anything or make a mess in the
       ARENA has been added and replaces content from previous rules.
   •   R510 *Only specific motors are allowed. WATTOS Stingray has been added to the allowed
       motors list.
   •   R503 *ROBOTS are limited to a total of 8 motors and 8 servos. The maximum number of
       allowed servos is reduced to 8.
   •   R801 *No Pneumatics is now No Pneumatic Actuators, High-Speed Blowers, or Vacuums now
       includes combined content from other previous rules.

Section 13 Tournament
Section 13 Tournament has been reorganized to re-order content – rule numbers have changed.
Recommended Award break timing has been adjusted to 15 minutes.
   •   T301 *Head REFEREE Interactions allows for up to 2 team members to talk with the Head
       REFEREE.
   •   T701 *Send one or two STUDENT representatives allows for up to two STUDENT team
       members to participate in ALLIANCE selection.




 Team Update 00                        September 12, 2026                                     3 of 3
